add: construction api tutorial (#2702)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/defi/rosetta/icp_rosetta/construction_api/operations_flow/payloads.mdx

---
keywords: [intermediate, rosetta, tutorial, derive, accountidentifier]
---
import { MarkdownChipRow } from "/src/components/Chip/MarkdownChipRow";

# Construction-Payloads

> ## How to fetch the signable Payloads for the requested transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overview
```

This section details how to call the `construction/payloads` endpoint of the Rosetta construction API.
The request and response types can be found in the [official documentation](https://docs.cloud.coinbase.com/rosetta/reference/constructionpayloads).
The payloads endpoint is responsible for providing the necessary payload that needs to be signed by the sender of the transaction. 

> ## Payloads-Request Structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Payloads-request structure
```

Additionally to the set of operations and the required public keys the user has the option to specify a few things in the metadata. 
These are comprised of two types of metadata:
- Non-request-specific metadata: These are options that can be set by the user that are independent of the request type that is being made. 
    - `ingress_start`: This field stipulates from which point in time onwards the request should be valid from. If not set this field will be set to the current time by Rosetta. 
    - `ingress_end`: This field determines until when the request will be valid. The returned unsigned transaction is only valid until this point in time. 

> - Request-Specific metadata: These are options that can be set for specific request types. For ICP Rosetta they are relevant for `TRANSACTION` request types. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Request-specific metadata: These are options that can be set for specific request types. For ICP Rosetta they are relevant for `TRANSACTION` request types. 
```

    - `memo`: See the [section](/docs/developer-docs/defi/icp-tokens/overview.mdx) for `memo` for the ICP Ledger.
    - `created_at_time`: See the [section](/docs/developer-docs/defi/icp-tokens/overview.mdx) for `created_at_time` for the ICP Ledger. 

> ## Payloads-Return Structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Payloads-return structure
```

There are always multiple payloads that need to be signed by the user. The reason for that is twofold. 
- The first reason has to do with how the Internet Computer processes requests. For a call to the IC to be successful and for the user to be able to read the response of the call to the canister two https calls have to be made. 

> The first https call (`Call Request`) contains all the information that the IC needs to know to be able to call the correct canister with the desired arguments. This call returns an ID which essentially serves as a ticket for the caller. With this ticket a user can then query the IC periodically (`Read-State Request`) and essentially ask the IC whether the original request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first HTTPS call (`Call Request`) contains all the information that the IC needs to know to be able to call the correct canister with the desired arguments. This call returns an ID which essentially serves as a ticket for the caller. With this ticket a user can then query the IC periodically (`Read-State Request`) and essentially ask the IC whether the original request
```

> has been processed and there exists a response. If the latter is true the IC will return the result in bytes. The Rosetta-API then converts these bytes into a readable format. This is why for every transaction that is requested from the user there exist at least two payloads. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has been processed and if there is a response. If the latter is true, the IC will return the result in bytes. The Rosetta-API then converts these bytes into a readable format. This is why for every transaction that is requested from the user there exist at least two payloads. 
```

- The second reason has to do with how the IC validates requests. Every `Call Request` and `Read-State Request` need to be forwarded to the IC with a valid signature that is associated with each of these requests. 

> Every request is only valid for a limited period of time (`EXPIRY_INTERVAL`). This time interval is in the range of a couple of minutes. To extend the overall time period in which the transaction can be posted, Rosetta will create a set of payloads with each being valid for a specific time interval. Together the payloads in this set cover th entire requested time period. For example if the `EXPIRY_INTERVAL` was 5 minutes and the requested time period is 20 minutes from now, Rosetta would need to create at least 20/5 payloads for each `Call Request` and `Read-State Request`. This amounts to a total of at least 20/5*2 payloads for this example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every request is only valid for a limited period of time (`EXPIRY_INTERVAL`). This time interval is in the range of a couple of minutes. To extend the overall time period in which the transaction can be posted, Rosetta will create a set of payloads, with each being valid for a specific time interval. Together, the payloads in this set cover the entire requested time period. For example, if the `EXPIRY_INTERVAL` was 5 minutes and the requested time period is 20 minutes from now, Rosetta would need to create at least 20/5 payloads for each `Call Request` and `Read-State Request`. This amounts to a total of at least 20/5*2 payloads for this example. 
```

> An example of a call to the payloads endpoint would look like the following. Here we do not set any metadata, so the unsigned transaction that is returned will be valid for the next 4 minutes. This time interval is set by Rosetta and can be changed by
> setting `ingress_end`. The `created_at_time` will be set to the current time if not provided and the `memo` will be left blank. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a call to the payloads endpoint would resemble the following: 
```

      "curve_type": "secp256k1"
    }
  ],
  "operations": [
    {
      "operation_identifier": {
        "index": 0
      },
      "type": "TRANSACTION",
      "account": {
        "address": "8b84c3a3529d02a9decb5b1a27e7c8d886e17e07ea0a538269697ef09c2a27b4"
      },
      "amount": {
        "value": "-10",
        "currency": {
          "symbol": "ICP",
          "decimals": 8
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "operation_identifier": {
        "index": 1
      },
      "type": "TRANSACTION",
      "account": {
        "address": "7f622708b363917e3ba0ef8ac1cb0dfe241ef5ffca54f32c1480473ee3a12cad"
      },
      "amount": {
        "value": "10",
        "currency": {
          "symbol": "ICP",
          "decimals": 8
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "operation_identifier": {
        "index": 2
      },
      "type": "FEE",
      "account": {
        "address": "8b84c3a3529d02a9decb5b1a27e7c8d886e17e07ea0a538269697ef09c2a27b4"
      },
      "amount": {
        "value": "-10000",
        "currency": {
          "symbol": "ICP",
          "decimals": 8
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}'
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This request does not set any metadata, so the unsigned transaction that is returned will be valid for the next 4 minutes. This time interval is set by Rosetta and can be changed by
setting `ingress_end`. The `created_at_time` will be set to the current time if not provided and the `memo` will be left blank. 
```

The returned object contains an unsigned transaction as well as the payloads. 

> The unsigned transaction is the in hex format serialized content that is sent to the Internet Computer. It contains all information that a replica needs to determine 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unsigned transaction is in hex format serialized content that is sent to the Internet Computer. It contains all information that a replica needs to determine 
```

which canister to call, at what endpoint and with which function parameters. The payloads is stipulated by the Rosetta-API standard and each payload gives information about which account has to sign what bytes in order for 
the unsigned transaction to be converted into a signed transaction successfully. 

> In the case of this example the returned payloads are two payloads one for the `Call Request` and the other for the `Read-State Request`. Both of these payloads will need to be signed in the next step. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of this example, the returned payloads are two payloads: one for the `Call Request` and the other for the `Read-State Request`. Both of these payloads will need to be signed in the next step. 
```

> The unsigned transaction will thus be valid for the next 4 minutes since we did not specify any `ingress_interval`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unsigned transaction will thus be valid for the next 4 minutes since you did not specify any `ingress_interval`:
```

```json
{'unsigned_transaction': 'a2677570646174657381826b5452414e53414354494f4ea56b63616e69737465725f69644a000000000000000201016b6d6574686f645f6e616d656773656e645f70626361726758480a0b08baea959fe0a9e58dbd0112040a02080a1a0308904e2a220a207f622708b363917e3ba0ef8ac1cb0dfe241ef5ffca54f32c1480473ee3a12cad3a0a0899d9c88df3d893e0176673656e646572581d2e70031d8e7ff922b6ad9f2a9eb3c1e77ffa7b6c0d0120dd4ac7e4f7026e696e67726573735f6578706972790070696e67726573735f6578706972696573811b17c04eff12cf8023', 'payloads': [{'account_identifier': {'address': '8b84c3a3529d02a9decb5b1a27e7c8d886e17e07ea0a538269697ef09c2a27b4'}, 'hex_bytes': '0a69632d726571756573748c85871f2b1d1edea73797b31cd63094fa82052fed84c06d45d6c719170d8f6f', 'signature_type': 'ecdsa'}, {'account_identifier': {'address': '8b84c3a3529d02a9decb5b1a27e7c8d886e17e07ea0a538269697ef09c2a27b4'}, 'hex_bytes': '0a69632d726571756573747a67e99e9f5e1cdfa741f8f757bb8c04f00a5fdb20a68bb273ce80973af7a6de', 'signature_type': 'ecdsa'}]}
```

> Here is an example call where we set the `ingress_start` time to the current time, the `ingress_end` time to an hour from now, the `created_at_time` is also set to the current time and the memo is set to `1234`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example call that sets the `ingress_start` time to the current time, the `ingress_end` time to an hour from now, the `created_at_time` is also set to the current time, and the memo is set to `1234`. 
```

```

> A call to the `construction/preprocess` endpoint written in python could be implemented like the following.
> Example call: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A call to the `construction/preprocess` endpoint written in Python could be implemented as follows:

```
